well how do you hear internet people
it's Bo again you know we've talked
about it on this channel before
Americans tend to pay attention to
international events and International
Affairs
once the headlines start the problem
with that is that we don't get the
backstory because once it's news and
once there's headlines we've already
missed all the rising action we don't
get the origin story behind a lot of
events and how they came to be so today
we're going to talk about how Castro
came to power because I'm not sure many
people know all right it's the 1950s
it's Cuba and there's this guy he's got
a military background and he wants a
little more power so he paints himself
as a man of the people
a populist and you know he kind of
reaches out and gets some backing from a
superpower kind of becomes their puppet
realizes he can't win an election
but if you can't win at the ballot box
there's another way to do it so he
stages a coup and like minute his ilk
when he comes to power well he starts
curtailing civil liberties good man of
the people that he is gets rid of the
ability to strike staffs the government
with his buddies turns into a
kleptocracy they just start using their
power to feather their own nests at the
expense of the people
that starts a revolutionary spirit of
the country
can't have that and so he starts
curtailing dissidents the economy goes
stagnant the gap between the haves and
the have-nots it increases income
inequality grows he cuts deals with
international crumbles and that
revolutionary spirit keeps growing so
the executions come now behind numbers
20,000 my reading my best guess I'm not
an authority 10 to 15 I've seen numbers
as low as a few hundred I'm pretty sure
those aren't right and that's it that's
that's how Castro came to power he
overthrew that dude that guy's name was
Batista Z conditions have to be right
for revolution you have to have certain
things you have to have a government
that isn't responsive won't institute
reforms so therefore people don't like
revolutions the only option they got to
be corrupt be more interested in
feathering their own nests than helping
the people they can't be comfortable you
know people only care about the pebble
in their shoe if everybody's comfortable
even if the government is corrupt well
you know that kind of turn a blind eye
do it but when that income inequality
grows people feel like they can't get a
fair shake in the game well they reset
the game you need all those conditions
sometimes other things can substitute
for them but you really need that
we've got most of them in the US now
luckily in the US because of our
infrastructure and because we are
incredibly comfortable
we still have that chance for that
peaceful revolution and the thing is we
just need to make sure that those who
are pushing that that are saying that
they are going to make America great
again that they're really going to
because a lot of times
anti-establishment rhetoric it's not
really anti-establishment
it's not for the people it's just
designed to put a new set of people in
charge so they can do the exact same
thing we've seen this recently history
doesn't repeat but it rhymes a lot of
things are I mean right now anyway it's
just a thought don't have a good night